README.md, before:

# Benchmarks of Go serialization methods

[![Gitter chat](https://badges.gitter.im/alecthomas.png)](https://gitter.im/alecthomas/Lobby)

This is a test suite for benchmarking various Go serialization methods.

## Tested serialization methods

- [encoding/gob](http://golang.org/pkg/encoding/gob/)
- [encoding/json](http://golang.org/pkg/encoding/json/)
- [github.com/alecthomas/binary](https://github.com/alecthomas/binary)
- [github.com/davecgh/go-xdr/xdr](https://github.com/davecgh/go-xdr)
- [github.com/Sereal/Sereal/Go/sereal](https://github.com/Sereal/Sereal)
- [github.com/ugorji/go/codec](https://github.com/ugorji/go/tree/master/codec)
- [gopkg.in/vmihailenco/msgpack.v2](https://github.com/vmihailenco/msgpack)
- [labix.org/v2/mgo/bson](https://labix.org/v2/mgo/bson)
- [github.com/tinylib/msgp](https://github.com/tinylib/msgp) *(code generator for msgpack)*
- [github.com/golang/protobuf](https://github.com/golang/protobuf) (generated code)
- [github.com/gogo/protobuf](https://github.com/gogo/protobuf) (generated code, optimized version of `goprotobuf`)
- [github.com/DeDiS/protobuf](https://github.com/DeDiS/protobuf) (reflection based)
- [github.com/google/flatbuffers](https://github.com/google/flatbuffers)
- [github.com/hprose/hprose-go/io](https://github.com/hprose/hprose-go)
- [github.com/glycerine/go-capnproto](https://github.com/glycerine/go-capnproto)
- [zombiezen.com/go/capnproto2](https://godoc.org/zombiezen.com/go/capnproto2)
- [github.com/andyleap/gencode](https://github.com/andyleap/gencode)
- [github.com/pascaldekloe/colfer](https://github.com/pascaldekloe/colfer)
- [github.com/linkedin/goavro](https://github.com/linkedin/goavro)

## Running the benchmarks

```bash
go get -u -t
go test -bench='.*' ./
```

Shameless plug: I use [pawk](https://github.com/alecthomas/pawk) to format the table:

```bash
go test -bench='.*' ./ | pawk -F'\t' '"%-40s %10s %10s %s %s" % f'
```

## Recommendation

If performance, correctness and interoperability are the most
important factors, [gogoprotobuf](https://gogo.github.io/) is
currently the best choice. It does require a pre-processing step (eg.
via Go 1.4's "go generate" command).

But as always, make your own choice based on your requirements.

## Data

The data being serialized is the following structure with randomly generated values:

```go
type A struct {
    Name     string
    BirthDay time.Time
    Phone    string
    Siblings int
    Spouse   bool
    Money    float64
}
```


## Results

2017-09-28 Results with Go 1.9 on a 2.3 GHz Intel Core i7 (MacBook Pro Retina 15-inch, Late 2013):

```
benchmark                                   iter              time/iter         bytes alloc    allocs
---------                                   ----              ---------         -----------    ------
BenchmarkMsgpMarshal-8                      10000000           178 ns/op         128 B/op       1 allocs/op
BenchmarkMsgpUnmarshal-8                     5000000           338 ns/op         112 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkVmihailencoMsgpackMarshal-8         1000000          1864 ns/op         368 B/op       6 allocs/op
BenchmarkVmihailencoMsgpackUnmarshal-8       1000000          1972 ns/op         383 B/op      13 allocs/op
BenchmarkJsonMarshal-8                        500000          2980 ns/op        1223 B/op       9 allocs/op
BenchmarkJsonUnmarshal-8                      500000          3120 ns/op         463 B/op       7 allocs/op
BenchmarkEasyJsonMarshal-8                   1000000          1288 ns/op         784 B/op       5 allocs/op
BenchmarkEasyJsonUnmarshal-8                 1000000          1330 ns/op         159 B/op       4 allocs/op
BenchmarkBsonMarshal-8                       1000000          1415 ns/op         392 B/op      10 allocs/op
BenchmarkBsonUnmarshal-8                     1000000          1996 ns/op         244 B/op      19 allocs/op
BenchmarkGobMarshal-8                        1000000          1009 ns/op          48 B/op       2 allocs/op
BenchmarkGobUnmarshal-8                      1000000          1032 ns/op         112 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkXdrMarshal-8                        1000000          1716 ns/op         392 B/op      19 allocs/op
BenchmarkXdrUnmarshal-8                      1000000          1455 ns/op         224 B/op      11 allocs/op
BenchmarkUgorjiCodecMsgpackMarshal-8         1000000          2148 ns/op        2721 B/op       7 allocs/op
BenchmarkUgorjiCodecMsgpackUnmarshal-8       1000000          2156 ns/op        3136 B/op       6 allocs/op
BenchmarkUgorjiCodecBincMarshal-8            1000000          2172 ns/op        2753 B/op       7 allocs/op
BenchmarkUgorjiCodecBincUnmarshal-8           500000          2322 ns/op        3296 B/op       9 allocs/op
BenchmarkSerealMarshal-8                      500000          2753 ns/op         912 B/op      21 allocs/op
BenchmarkSerealUnmarshal-8                    500000          3069 ns/op        1008 B/op      34 allocs/op
BenchmarkBinaryMarshal-8                     1000000          1306 ns/op         246 B/op      14 allocs/op
BenchmarkBinaryUnmarshal-8                   1000000          1497 ns/op         336 B/op      22 allocs/op
BenchmarkFlatBuffersMarshal-8                5000000           389 ns/op           0 B/op       0 allocs/op
BenchmarkFlatBuffersUnmarshal-8              5000000           252 ns/op         112 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkCapNProtoMarshal-8                  3000000           521 ns/op          56 B/op       2 allocs/op
BenchmarkCapNProtoUnmarshal-8                3000000           432 ns/op         200 B/op       6 allocs/op
BenchmarkCapNProto2Marshal-8                 2000000           757 ns/op         244 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkCapNProto2Unmarshal-8               2000000           937 ns/op         320 B/op       6 allocs/op
BenchmarkHproseMarshal-8                     2000000           887 ns/op         332 B/op       8 allocs/op
BenchmarkHproseUnmarshal-8                   1000000          1012 ns/op         319 B/op      10 allocs/op
BenchmarkProtobufMarshal-8                   2000000           901 ns/op         200 B/op       7 allocs/op
BenchmarkProtobufUnmarshal-8                 2000000           692 ns/op         192 B/op      10 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoprotobufMarshal-8                 3000000           506 ns/op         312 B/op       4 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoprotobufUnmarshal-8               2000000           691 ns/op         432 B/op       9 allocs/op
BenchmarkGogoprotobufMarshal-8              10000000           152 ns/op          64 B/op       1 allocs/op
BenchmarkGogoprotobufUnmarshal-8            10000000           221 ns/op          96 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkColferMarshal-8                    10000000           137 ns/op          64 B/op       1 allocs/op
BenchmarkColferUnmarshal-8                  10000000           183 ns/op         112 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkGencodeMarshal-8                   10000000           166 ns/op          80 B/op       2 allocs/op
BenchmarkGencodeUnmarshal-8                 10000000           181 ns/op         112 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkGencodeUnsafeMarshal-8             20000000           104 ns/op          48 B/op       1 allocs/op
BenchmarkGencodeUnsafeUnmarshal-8           10000000           144 ns/op          96 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkXDR2Marshal-8                      10000000           168 ns/op          64 B/op       1 allocs/op
BenchmarkXDR2Unmarshal-8                    10000000           143 ns/op          32 B/op       2 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvroMarshal-8                      500000          2403 ns/op        1030 B/op      31 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvroUnmarshal-8                    200000          5876 ns/op        3437 B/op      87 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvro2TextMarshal-8                 500000          2797 ns/op        1326 B/op      20 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvro2TextUnmarshal-8               500000          2665 ns/op         807 B/op      34 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvro2BinaryMarshal-8              2000000           922 ns/op         510 B/op      11 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvro2BinaryUnmarshal-8            2000000           989 ns/op         576 B/op      13 allocs/op
PASS
ok      github.com/alecthomas/go_serialization_benchmarks   91.733s
```

## Issues


The benchmarks can also be run with validation enabled.

```bash
VALIDATE=1 go test -bench='.*' ./
```

Unfortunately, several of the serializers exhibit issues:

1. **(minor)** BSON drops sub-microsecond precision from `time.Time`.
3. **(minor)** Ugorji Binc Codec drops the timezone name (eg. "EST" -> "-0500") from `time.Time`.

```
--- FAIL: BenchmarkBsonUnmarshal-8
    serialization_benchmarks_test.go:115: unmarshaled object differed:
        &{20b999e3621bd773 2016-01-19 14:05:02.469416459 -0800 PST f017c8e9de 4 true 0.20887343719329818}
        &{20b999e3621bd773 2016-01-19 14:05:02.469 -0800 PST f017c8e9de 4 true 0.20887343719329818}
--- FAIL: BenchmarkUgorjiCodecBincUnmarshal-8
    serialization_benchmarks_test.go:115: unmarshaled object differed:
        &{20a1757ced6b488e 2016-01-19 14:05:15.69474534 -0800 PST 71f3bf4233 0 false 0.8712180830484527}
        &{20a1757ced6b488e 2016-01-19 14:05:15.69474534 -0800 -0800 71f3bf4233 0 false 0.8712180830484527}
```

All other fields are correct however.

Additionally, while not a correctness issue, FlatBuffers, ProtoBuffers and Cap'N'Proto do not
support time types directly. In the benchmarks an int64 value is used to hold a UnixNano timestamp.

Commit message:

Added ikeapack to benchmarks & list (#66)
Added ikeapack

README.md, after:

# Benchmarks of Go serialization methods

[![Gitter chat](https://badges.gitter.im/alecthomas.png)](https://gitter.im/alecthomas/Lobby)

This is a test suite for benchmarking various Go serialization methods.

## Tested serialization methods

- [encoding/gob](http://golang.org/pkg/encoding/gob/)
- [encoding/json](http://golang.org/pkg/encoding/json/)
- [github.com/alecthomas/binary](https://github.com/alecthomas/binary)
- [github.com/davecgh/go-xdr/xdr](https://github.com/davecgh/go-xdr)
- [github.com/Sereal/Sereal/Go/sereal](https://github.com/Sereal/Sereal)
- [github.com/ugorji/go/codec](https://github.com/ugorji/go/tree/master/codec)
- [gopkg.in/vmihailenco/msgpack.v2](https://github.com/vmihailenco/msgpack)
- [labix.org/v2/mgo/bson](https://labix.org/v2/mgo/bson)
- [github.com/tinylib/msgp](https://github.com/tinylib/msgp) *(code generator for msgpack)*
- [github.com/golang/protobuf](https://github.com/golang/protobuf) (generated code)
- [github.com/gogo/protobuf](https://github.com/gogo/protobuf) (generated code, optimized version of `goprotobuf`)
- [github.com/DeDiS/protobuf](https://github.com/DeDiS/protobuf) (reflection based)
- [github.com/google/flatbuffers](https://github.com/google/flatbuffers)
- [github.com/hprose/hprose-go/io](https://github.com/hprose/hprose-go)
- [github.com/glycerine/go-capnproto](https://github.com/glycerine/go-capnproto)
- [zombiezen.com/go/capnproto2](https://godoc.org/zombiezen.com/go/capnproto2)
- [github.com/andyleap/gencode](https://github.com/andyleap/gencode)
- [github.com/pascaldekloe/colfer](https://github.com/pascaldekloe/colfer)
- [github.com/linkedin/goavro](https://github.com/linkedin/goavro)
- [github.com/ikkerens/ikeapack](https://github.com/ikkerens/ikeapack)

## Running the benchmarks

```bash
go get -u -t
go test -bench='.*' ./
```

Shameless plug: I use [pawk](https://github.com/alecthomas/pawk) to format the table:

```bash
go test -bench='.*' ./ | pawk -F'\t' '"%-40s %10s %10s %s %s" % f'
```

## Recommendation

If performance, correctness and interoperability are the most
important factors, [gogoprotobuf](https://gogo.github.io/) is
currently the best choice. It does require a pre-processing step (eg.
via Go 1.4's "go generate" command).

But as always, make your own choice based on your requirements.

## Data

The data being serialized is the following structure with randomly generated values:

```go
type A struct {
    Name     string
    BirthDay time.Time
    Phone    string
    Siblings int
    Spouse   bool
    Money    float64
}
```


## Results

2017-09-28 Results with Go 1.9 on a 2.3 GHz Intel Core i7 (MacBook Pro Retina 15-inch, Late 2013):

```
benchmark                                   iter              time/iter         bytes alloc    allocs
---------                                   ----              ---------         -----------    ------
BenchmarkMsgpMarshal-8                      10000000           178 ns/op         128 B/op       1 allocs/op
BenchmarkMsgpUnmarshal-8                     5000000           338 ns/op         112 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkVmihailencoMsgpackMarshal-8         1000000          1864 ns/op         368 B/op       6 allocs/op
BenchmarkVmihailencoMsgpackUnmarshal-8       1000000          1972 ns/op         383 B/op      13 allocs/op
BenchmarkJsonMarshal-8                        500000          2980 ns/op        1223 B/op       9 allocs/op
BenchmarkJsonUnmarshal-8                      500000          3120 ns/op         463 B/op       7 allocs/op
BenchmarkEasyJsonMarshal-8                   1000000          1288 ns/op         784 B/op       5 allocs/op
BenchmarkEasyJsonUnmarshal-8                 1000000          1330 ns/op         159 B/op       4 allocs/op
BenchmarkBsonMarshal-8                       1000000          1415 ns/op         392 B/op      10 allocs/op
BenchmarkBsonUnmarshal-8                     1000000          1996 ns/op         244 B/op      19 allocs/op
BenchmarkGobMarshal-8                        1000000          1009 ns/op          48 B/op       2 allocs/op
BenchmarkGobUnmarshal-8                      1000000          1032 ns/op         112 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkXdrMarshal-8                        1000000          1716 ns/op         392 B/op      19 allocs/op
BenchmarkXdrUnmarshal-8                      1000000          1455 ns/op         224 B/op      11 allocs/op
BenchmarkUgorjiCodecMsgpackMarshal-8         1000000          2148 ns/op        2721 B/op       7 allocs/op
BenchmarkUgorjiCodecMsgpackUnmarshal-8       1000000          2156 ns/op        3136 B/op       6 allocs/op
BenchmarkUgorjiCodecBincMarshal-8            1000000          2172 ns/op        2753 B/op       7 allocs/op
BenchmarkUgorjiCodecBincUnmarshal-8           500000          2322 ns/op        3296 B/op       9 allocs/op
BenchmarkSerealMarshal-8                      500000          2753 ns/op         912 B/op      21 allocs/op
BenchmarkSerealUnmarshal-8                    500000          3069 ns/op        1008 B/op      34 allocs/op
BenchmarkBinaryMarshal-8                     1000000          1306 ns/op         246 B/op      14 allocs/op
BenchmarkBinaryUnmarshal-8                   1000000          1497 ns/op         336 B/op      22 allocs/op
BenchmarkFlatBuffersMarshal-8                5000000           389 ns/op           0 B/op       0 allocs/op
BenchmarkFlatBuffersUnmarshal-8              5000000           252 ns/op         112 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkCapNProtoMarshal-8                  3000000           521 ns/op          56 B/op       2 allocs/op
BenchmarkCapNProtoUnmarshal-8                3000000           432 ns/op         200 B/op       6 allocs/op
BenchmarkCapNProto2Marshal-8                 2000000           757 ns/op         244 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkCapNProto2Unmarshal-8               2000000           937 ns/op         320 B/op       6 allocs/op
BenchmarkHproseMarshal-8                     2000000           887 ns/op         332 B/op       8 allocs/op
BenchmarkHproseUnmarshal-8                   1000000          1012 ns/op         319 B/op      10 allocs/op
BenchmarkProtobufMarshal-8                   2000000           901 ns/op         200 B/op       7 allocs/op
BenchmarkProtobufUnmarshal-8                 2000000           692 ns/op         192 B/op      10 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoprotobufMarshal-8                 3000000           506 ns/op         312 B/op       4 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoprotobufUnmarshal-8               2000000           691 ns/op         432 B/op       9 allocs/op
BenchmarkGogoprotobufMarshal-8              10000000           152 ns/op          64 B/op       1 allocs/op
BenchmarkGogoprotobufUnmarshal-8            10000000           221 ns/op          96 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkColferMarshal-8                    10000000           137 ns/op          64 B/op       1 allocs/op
BenchmarkColferUnmarshal-8                  10000000           183 ns/op         112 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkGencodeMarshal-8                   10000000           166 ns/op          80 B/op       2 allocs/op
BenchmarkGencodeUnmarshal-8                 10000000           181 ns/op         112 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkGencodeUnsafeMarshal-8             20000000           104 ns/op          48 B/op       1 allocs/op
BenchmarkGencodeUnsafeUnmarshal-8           10000000           144 ns/op          96 B/op       3 allocs/op
BenchmarkXDR2Marshal-8                      10000000           168 ns/op          64 B/op       1 allocs/op
BenchmarkXDR2Unmarshal-8                    10000000           143 ns/op          32 B/op       2 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvroMarshal-8                      500000          2403 ns/op        1030 B/op      31 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvroUnmarshal-8                    200000          5876 ns/op        3437 B/op      87 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvro2TextMarshal-8                 500000          2797 ns/op        1326 B/op      20 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvro2TextUnmarshal-8               500000          2665 ns/op         807 B/op      34 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvro2BinaryMarshal-8              2000000           922 ns/op         510 B/op      11 allocs/op
BenchmarkGoAvro2BinaryUnmarshal-8            2000000           989 ns/op         576 B/op      13 allocs/op
PASS
ok      github.com/alecthomas/go_serialization_benchmarks   91.733s
```

## Issues


The benchmarks can also be run with validation enabled.

```bash
VALIDATE=1 go test -bench='.*' ./
```

Unfortunately, several of the serializers exhibit issues:

1. **(minor)** BSON drops sub-microsecond precision from `time.Time`.
3. **(minor)** Ugorji Binc Codec drops the timezone name (eg. "EST" -> "-0500") from `time.Time`.

```
--- FAIL: BenchmarkBsonUnmarshal-8
    serialization_benchmarks_test.go:115: unmarshaled object differed:
        &{20b999e3621bd773 2016-01-19 14:05:02.469416459 -0800 PST f017c8e9de 4 true 0.20887343719329818}
        &{20b999e3621bd773 2016-01-19 14:05:02.469 -0800 PST f017c8e9de 4 true 0.20887343719329818}
--- FAIL: BenchmarkUgorjiCodecBincUnmarshal-8
    serialization_benchmarks_test.go:115: unmarshaled object differed:
        &{20a1757ced6b488e 2016-01-19 14:05:15.69474534 -0800 PST 71f3bf4233 0 false 0.8712180830484527}
        &{20a1757ced6b488e 2016-01-19 14:05:15.69474534 -0800 -0800 71f3bf4233 0 false 0.8712180830484527}
```

All other fields are correct however.

Additionally, while not a correctness issue, FlatBuffers, ProtoBuffers, Cap'N'Proto and ikeapack do not
support time types directly. In the benchmarks an int64 value is used to hold a UnixNano timestamp.
